There we go, all right, so I think that's
enough about storage, so let's close that.
And let's see, we have a we have already
done that, now this makes sense,
I remember that I showed you
the app storage technique.
So I think hopefully,
everything we've done now really makes
the diamond pattern easy to consume.
You understand there's a fallback, this
fallback can be used to Lookup Functions,
these functions exist
in separate contracts.
We're going to delegate call out to that
contract, so we use our own storage.
We've all agreed to look up our storage,
with this special magic way to look
up storage for everyone's contract.
We'll never collide, we don't have to
worry, when we return out the results,
all the magic will happen through
the diamond in return out.
We can use interfaces and
ethers to do get contractAt,
here's what I think
the shape should look like.
Here's my diamond address, so
we can constantly change our diamond
into the shape that we want it to be.
Because we already know,
we've uploaded those functions there,
there's also other things you can do
such as, it's called the diamond lobe.
Which is a play on words because a lobe, I
think is the thing you inspect the diamond
with, like I said,
a lot of bespoke terminology there.
There's effectively discovery,
you can call into a diamond and
say, what are your functions and it
will print back to you, their functions.
So, discovery is built into it, they call
it a lobe, all right ,so let's go to,
I call this part Lucy in the Sky
with Diamonds, very excited.
Remember when we talked
about great groovy upgrade,
I actually called it because I won the
largest initialism ever used at Netflix.
When I had the upgrade groovy at Netflix,
I called it great groovy upgrade
in the Sky with Diamonds.
Because I wanted the name, and
after the Beatles and all that, and
it was just great.
Then I had this acronym that
was 17 letters long, and
people would ask me what it means,
beautiful.
All right, so
we're going to do a diamond contract,
we're actually going to go
through the whole process.
So I'm just going to program,
this you can try to program along with me,
it's just there's so many steps, but
you've done so many deploys today.
You've done so much of it, you should just
be able to kind of naively understand it.
But it'll just take too much time to
kind of go through it step by step and
have everyone keep, up so
I'm just going to go quickly.
And just experience the vendor for
pleasure of watching someone go for
a moment.
So I'm going to clone down this,
which is called the diamond-3-hardhat.
This is that person that I
was talking about that made
the diamond standard, which is EIP-2535.
And he has some associated repositories,
where you can actually get a template,
for your contract that
you want to develop.
So we'll go like this, we'll go to my
personal, I'm going to rm-rdf, because I
bet you I probably already have something
with the word diamond in there, right?
Yeah, I just knew I would, so
I'm going to go git clone,
let's download this thing
into my personal folder,
jump in here and
go nain yarn and install, right.
All right yep, you uninstall so
now we just need to run this script, but
we need to do something about that script.
So I'm going to do a couple things
to this library really quickly.
So first I want to kind of prove
that all these things work,
so we kind of all understand them.
So first, I mean, they might by the way,
obviously I think the diamond
repository might win the contest for
most amount of npm modules.
So I hope you guys don't feel bad,
if you don't feel
like I didn't do a good enough job,
I really went out here, tried my bestest.
All right perfect, so now that we've done
that, I'm going to vim into this and
I'm going to do a couple things.
So first let's go to contracts, and
I'm going to create a simple
contract called A.sol.
Yes, we're going to rely on
this very inconveniently named
Function I'm going to do
a pragma solidity 0.8.0.
And then I'm going to create a simple
contract, contract A, get a function getA,
returns 42, up all the wrong
keywords in all the wrong places.
Public pure returns u, and there we go, so
we have a singular function on a contract,
right?
I just wanted to make it very, very simple
because I want to highlight its uses,
not show you how complex it can get.
All right, so we have that, fantastic, so
next let's go to the deploy script, so
let's walk through this together.
So, remember the getsigners thing,
this is one of the convenient methods,
that's added by hardhat.
It assumes that hardhat's being executed,
it's also in a js file,
so, we're just going to allow js to
do its thing, which means nothing.
And so we grab the signers, and we grab
the first one, okay, we understand that.
We're going to grab the DiamondCutFacet,
and deploy it,
this is the function that is used to add,
remove, and
replace functions that the diamond uses.
So it's its own contract, this is kind
of where the 200 IQ move happens,
then we deploy the diamond.
Which actually references
the DiamondCutFacet, and
actually goes and calls into its method.
And brings it into the diamond, and
then adds that as its only function.
So when the diamonds deployed for
the first time, it has a single function
on it, which is called DiamondCut.
Basic terminology is that, each one of
your contracts that hang off of diamonds
called a facet to add, replace,
or remove, they call them cuts.
I know a cut usually reduces, but in this
case you add with a cut, it's just very,
very positive honestly,
if you think about it, so there we go.
So let's deploy these two things and let's
just kind of cut it right here because we
don't want any more of this,
return diamond, there we go.
So this deploys, the diamond,
it does the cut,
plus it does the deploying of the diamond,
it returns the diamond object.
So we're going to use this as
our first step, after that,
we need to look at some more code.
So this next part might be a little bit
confusing, but remember how I talked
about, how there's contracts, or
there's constructors on your contracts.
Well what's the problem
with a constructor,
fundamentally when it comes
to the diamond pattern?
Can anyone try to think about it, with
all the things that we've talked about,
because I'd love to
hear one of you say it.
>> Is it because of baking
the arcs into the compiled?
>> Very close, but no.
All right I'll tell you,
remember how storage is in perspective
of the diamond,
when does a constructor get called?
It gets called at the deployment of
the contract, with whom storage,
is the storage in perspective of,
add constructor time.
Let me put it this way, we deploy our
diamond, we then deploy contract A,
its constructor gets
called with A's memory.
The diamonds memory is not
involved in deployment,
because that's not how
any of this stuff works.
So what we really need is an INIT function
on A, if we wish to have a constructor,
that can be called in relation
to the diamonds memory.
And so they have this whole notion where,
whenever you add a cut to the diamond,
or when you add replace, remove.
You can also specify an INIT function,
that will happen and
be called in perspective
of the diamond contracts.
So that way any constructor logic
you have, is actually in an INIT
function with the correct perspective,
does that make more sense?
Hopefully that makes a little bit more
sense, I know it's kind of getting iffy at
this part, takes a little bit of
experience but it makes a lot of sense.
So I'm just going to get rid of that, we
don't need that, we're not going to do it.
Next, they go through some basic
examples of how to do a cut, so
I am going to keep this and
I'm going to like this.
Let's go async function,
what should we call this,
how about we call this one,
addA, that feels good to me.
I'm going to pass him the diamond for
A, and there we go, so let's see,
we don't need any of this, right?
We don't need their specified functions,
but let's grab this stuff and
put it in, all right.
Now look at what they're doing,
they were going through each one of the
contracts that they previously specified.
They got the contract factory, we're
totally familiar with this at this point,
they deployed it, we're totally
familiar with this at this point.
They waited for it to deploy, okay, this
just looks like a contract deploy, right?
So they deployed their contract out,
but then they added the address
to the contract, an Add action and
this thing called functionSelectors.
Function selectors just go through all of
your public functions, hashes them, so
creates this four-byte representation
of your function, and passes that in.
Because when you call a fallback
function on the message object,
which is that public object that's
available on every single function.
Call where I can get like,
say the sender of this, there's also .sig,
which stands for signature.
Which is a four-byte encoding that's
identical to what's happening right here.
So we can say, I see what's
happening in my fallback function,
I have found the function signature.
And it's associated with this address,
so therefore I'm going to call it.
Now before I continue on that,
it might be a little bit easier
to just look at the diamond code.
So I'm going to jump into
the diamond code, and
go down to the fallback function, so A,
they do that exact same thing that we do.
They grab out special storage just for
their diamonds so
they don't accidentally
clobber your storage.
They then go and
do exactly what I thought they would do,
go and grab out some location
based on the signature.
Kind of what you would expect them to do,
then they get the address,
now notice that this looks a lot
like this facet address, right?
Facet address, it is pretty much the same
object being stored, so they grab
out the facet, it has to not equal
zero meaning, this thing has to exist.
If you try to call a function that does
not exist, it's going to air with sorry
this function does not exist on
the diamond, I can't find it.
Now remember how I said fallback
functions get a little bit confusing,
here's the assembly part
that I can't write by hand.
I'd have to go look it up in the docs and
follow this very closely, but
effectively what it's doing is.
It's copying all the data from the call
into some sort of special space,
I don't really understand where
it's calling it, but it's doing it.
Then it does a delegatecall,
which we've talked about plenty of times,
it's going to call this function.
In perspective of our own diamond memory,
the facet is the address
to where it's doing it.
And it's going to go from zero
to the size of the calldata,
then I don't know what these
other two zeros are for.
Then, on return, it's going to copy in all
that data again back into our area and
if it was not successful.
We revert the transaction with
whatever message was returned to us,
else we return with whatever
message was returned to us.
This mostly makes sense, right I don't
think any of us could write this first
try, but we certainly can walk through,
and understand the general concept of it.
And so that's all the fallback
functions doing on the diamond exactly,
almost to the tee.
What we thought it would be doing
based on this drawing right here,
everything's coming through the address.
It's looking at it up in some sort of
array, it's calling it in perspective of
the diamond, the return values are coming
back out, it's doing it all, awesome.
There's one other place
we probably should look,
I think I can kind of give a nice little
explanation for, let's go right here.
So when we do the cut, it's going to
go through and it's going to say, hey,
is this an ad if it's an ad,
we'll add it to our list.
If it's a replace, we're going to replace
it from our list, if it's a remove we'll
remove it from our list, or
else you've done something wrong, right?
So after it does all that, which we're not
going to really concern ourselves with,
it'll omit a nice little hey, we've
had a change in our diamond contract.
So you can actually listen for
that on a website and
understand something's happened,
or in your backend.
You can find it, or other people can look
at it, to verify you're not cheating with
your contract, and then on top of that,
we call this a init DiamondCut.
Now this is where I was talking about that
constructor, if you pass in a zero address
for an init, then that's fine,
it doesn't do anything, right.
It's like, okay, we're not going
to do anything else, effectively,
what's going to happen is.
It's going to delegatecall to your init
address, with the data you provide us,
so that way you can call this constructor
function at the end of a cut.
I just wanted to make sure we walk
through that a little bit, so
you just kind of understand it, you don't
have to understand it to its exact tee.
You just need enough to know, all right,
I know the steps that are happening.
Because when it comes to the deploy
script, I know things can get a little bit
hairy, you need to make sure
you understand these things.
So for us, we're really only
doing a singular contract, so
we don't need to do all
this confusing stuff.
I'll keep cut, as an array just because
that's what they already had, and
FacetName, let's go in here and
just go A, right?
So there we go, we've just deployed A,
pretty straightforward,
in fact, I'm going to just take this out.
And I'm going to this async function,
deployA,
deplayA, deploy A,
return facet, there we go.
Just to let you know, make sure it happens
and then we're going to move this thing in
here, because, well it just
feels better if we just do that.
There we go, so
now we will always know that A has
been deployed to this new address.
And so const, I think we called
it facet = await deployA awesome,
so this feels pretty good.
So now we've created this little
deployment script, we've also created
the cut that's required to add it
to our diamond, we saw that right?
So we have a action add, we have
the address in which needs to be add,
plus the functions that we want
to be encoded onto our diamond.
All right, so now let's take apart
this last little bit right here, so
now notice what they do right here.
This is that clever thing and
I did it once too,
where I'm going to grab the contractAt,
in the shape of our IDiamondCut interface,
at my diamond address.
Meaning that if we look
up IDiamond interface,
all it has on it is
the function DiamondCut.
So we're going to take our diamond and
morph it into a single function item,
because that's all we're
saying is at this address.
And we're now going to call it with
our DiamondCut information, and
address to call an init function on,
and some extra calldata if needed.
So there we go we did that first part,
hopefully this makes sense,
we're just kind of casting
an address into a shape.
I'm going to erase these things we don't
need this, we really don't need this,
we also don't need this.
Because this was just doing the actual
functioncall, the init data,
we don't want to have any of that.
So it really comes down to
this last item right here,
which is we're going to take
our diamondCut remember.
That's just the diamond address,
casted into an interface.
We're going to call diamondCut on it,
remember, diamondCut is added
because of the ether's object.
It took in its ABI,
which is this interface,
was able to cast into the correct shape.
Then we're going to pass in the cut, which
is just simply As, information right here,
so I'm trying to intentionally
overly explain this.
Now we need to do one last thing,
we don't want to execute any init function
because our A, has no init function.
So I'll just do the extremely
convenient address zero,
which of course an address is 20 bytes.
So I'm going to go, boom,
40 zeros, just a quick 40
zero right there, and
then the data has to be an empty array.
I wish it was a little bit nicer, I'm
sure we can make it a little bit nicer.
We could add our own function that
kind of does that automatically for
us if we don't provide any arguments,
but there we go.
We're going to do a diamondCut and
provide the zeroth address or
the null address, and
no information about it.
So then it's going to wait for
it to be finished, and once it's finished,
we've done the diamond cut,
we're good to go.
I don't think I've added any mistakes,
but I mean, you never know, so
let's go like this,
I'm going to simply go addA, there we go.
I'm going to remove that because I like
to live dangerously, there we go, and
let's see anything else in here,
we don't need that.
And I'm just going to get rid of this
because honestly, we don't need all this
protection stuff, so let's just make
sure we return the diamond perfectly.
And we're going to log out all
of our addresses as we go, so
let's see if we can deploy diamond,
and addA to it.
I think we're going to be able to do
this naturally first try, so let's
make sure that we have our jpegdegens,
still has our note up, there we go.
We still have our network running locally,
so that means I can jump back here,
npx hardhat run scripts, and
let's just do deploy, network, local host.
So if I've done everything correctly,
you'll see that we've deployed our diamond
at this address, we've deployed A.
This is its address, we've even cut in
here's the transaction that happened.
If we look at our network, you'll see
all this information kind of coming in,
fantastic.
We've done a bunch of stuff, it kind of
does a bunch of unrecognized contracts,
it can't understand it.
It's being called from the outside of
this project a little bit confused,
doesn't really matter because
we know we've done it.
So, let's take our diamond
address not our A address,
remember A was deployed here,
let's take our diamond address.
Let's copy that thing out and
go over here, and
go const diamondAddr equals this,
fantastic.
So now instead of deploying the diamond or
deploying A,
we need to do something else, right?
Let's try calling A, so for me to call
A I'm first going to go back here,
open up A and
let's go like this interface IA.
Let's just do that, make it simple,
there we go, we have the interface IA and
of course interfaces always
just assume external.
Even though technically it's not external
public, is a superset of external so
it works out, so there we go.
We have our IA, everything looks
fantastic, I'm going to go like this,
a = await up we have to do this in
a function, await, function callA.
How does that sound, we'll call it callA,
that makes most sense,
await ethers.getContractAt IA, the name of
our interface, plus our diamond address.
So notice that we are now
taking our diamond address, and
we are fully using a diamondAddr,
there we go.
We are fully using it as A,
even though it's definitely not,
it just contains references to A, so
let's call it console.log
"a" ,await a.getA.
Is that what I called it,
I always forget, this is the problem,
you add too many of these,
okay, I did use that, awesome.
All right, good, so
we should see 42 correct.
All right, awesome.
So let's relaunch our script and see it
do it, now notice I did something wrong.
All right, there we go,
await has no effect,
that's because you're supposed to
call it async, there we go, awesome.
And then do this last one right here,
there we go, we see our value 42,
that's pretty cool, right?
Because we just have one contract
that we're pointing to, but
we're actually calling on a different
contract, that's pretty amazing.